---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/lc/134-gas-station/","tags":["greedy","array"]}
---

>[!Problem]
>There are `n` gas stations along a circular route, where the amount of gas at the `ith` station is `gas[i]`.
> You have a car with an unlimited gas tank and it costs `cost[i]` of gas to travel from the `ith` station to its next `(i + 1)th` station. You begin the journey with an empty tank at one of the gas stations.
> 
> Given two integer arrays `gas` and `cost`, return _the starting gas station's index if you can travel around the circuit once in the clockwise direction, otherwise return_ `-1`. If there exists a solution, it is **guaranteed** to be **unique**.
> 
> **Example 1:**
> 
> **Input:** gas = [1,2,3,4,5], cost = [3,4,5,1,2]
> **Output:** 3
> **Explanation:**
> Start at station 3 (index 3) and fill up with 4 unit of gas. Your tank = 0 + 4 = 4
> Travel to station 4. Your tank = 4 - 1 + 5 = 8
> Travel to station 0. Your tank = 8 - 2 + 1 = 7
> Travel to station 1. Your tank = 7 - 3 + 2 = 6
> Travel to station 2. Your tank = 6 - 4 + 3 = 5
> Travel to station 3. The cost is 5. Your gas is just enough to travel back to station 3.
> Therefore, return 3 as the starting index.
> 
> **Example 2:**
> 
> **Input:** gas = [2,3,4], cost = [3,4,3]
> **Output:** -1
> **Explanation:**
> You can't start at station 0 or 1, as there is not enough gas to travel to the next station.
> Let's start at station 2 and fill up with 4 unit of gas. Your tank = 0 + 4 = 4
> Travel to station 0. Your tank = 4 - 3 + 2 = 3
> Travel to station 1. Your tank = 3 - 3 + 3 = 3
> You cannot travel back to station 2, as it requires 4 unit of gas but you only have 3.
> Therefore, you can't travel around the circuit once no matter where you start.
> 
> **Constraints:**
> 
> - `n == gas.length == cost.length`
> - `1 <= n <= 105`
> - `0 <= gas[i], cost[i] <= 104`
> - The input is generated such that the answer is unique.

# Solution
- **Time Complexity**: $O(n)$
- **Space Complexity**: $O(1)$
## Intuition
- Brute force is starting at each index and checking the conditions $O(n^2)$
- The surplus gas after reaching each station is the subarray sum till that point (gas array - cost array)
- In the brute force approach, for a particular starting station, we need surplus of start -> end subarray and 0 -> start subarray
- Since subarrays are involved, we can use a [[Kadane's Algorithm\|Kadane's Algorithm]] style setup here
- We start maintaining the amount of surplus gas after reaching each station, this gives us 2 optimizations
	1. When we have start station as 0, once we see that we run out of gas at a point, all stations from 0 till that point will lead to running out of gas. So, the next station to check in the outer loop is the station after the failed point. Just reset surplus and start from next station.
	2. We don't need to go around the array when starting from the middle, we can get the surplus from that part based on what we have seen so far, by maintaining another total surplus which does not reset
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int canCompleteCircuit(vector<int>& gas, vector<int>& cost) {
        int surplus = 0, totalSurplus = 0;
        int start = 0;

        for (int i = 0; i < gas.size(); i++) {
            totalSurplus += (gas.at(i) - cost.at(i));
            surplus += (gas.at(i) - cost.at(i));

            if (surplus < 0) {
                surplus = 0;
                start = i + 1;
            }
        }

        return (totalSurplus < 0) ? -1 : start;
    }
};
```