---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/lc/135-candy/","tags":["array","greedy"]}
---

>[!Problem]
>There are `n` children standing in a line. Each child is assigned a rating value given in the integer array `ratings`.
> You are giving candies to these children subjected to the following requirements:
> 
> - Each child must have at least one candy.
> - Children with a higher rating get more candies than their neighbors.
> 
> Return _the minimum number of candies you need to have to distribute the candies to the children_.
> 
> **Example 1:**
> 
> **Input:** ratings = [1,0,2]
> **Output:** 5
> **Explanation:** You can allocate to the first, second and third child with 2, 1, 2 candies respectively.
> 
> **Example 2:**
> 
> **Input:** ratings = [1,2,2]
> **Output:** 4
> **Explanation:** You can allocate to the first, second and third child with 1, 2, 1 candies respectively.
> The third child gets 1 candy because it satisfies the above two conditions.
> 
> **Constraints:**
> 
> - `n == ratings.length`
> - `1 <= n <= 2 * 104`
> - `0 <= ratings[i] <= 2 * 104`

# Solution 1: 2 pass greedy solution
- **Time Complexity**: $O(n)$
- **Space Complexity**: $O(n)$
## Intuition
- Similar to [[LC/238. Product of Array Except Self\|238. Product of Array Except Self]]
- Initialize candies array with ones based on first condition
- First pass from left side, maintain that if rating of current candy is more than previous, it's number of candies is one more than previous (this is atleast one more than so that minimum total candies is achieved)
- Second pass from right side, similar but if already has candies more than the neighbor, leave it as is
```python
class Solution:
    def candy(self, ratings: List[int]) -> int:
        n = len(ratings)
        candies = [1] * n

        for i in range(1, n):
            if ratings[i] > ratings[i - 1]:
                candies[i] = candies[i - 1] + 1
        
        for j in range(n - 2, -1, -1):
            if ratings[j] > ratings[j + 1]:
                candies[j] = max(candies[j], candies[j + 1] + 1)

        return sum(candies)
```