---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/lc/155-min-stack/","tags":["stack"]}
---

>[!Problem]
>Design a stack that supports push, pop, top, and retrieving the minimum element in constant time.
> Implement the `MinStack` class:
> 
> - `MinStack()` initializes the stack object.
> - `void push(int val)` pushes the element `val` onto the stack.
> - `void pop()` removes the element on the top of the stack.
> - `int top()` gets the top element of the stack.
> - `int getMin()` retrieves the minimum element in the stack.
> 
> You must implement a solution with `O(1)` time complexity for each function.
> 
> **Example 1:**
> 
> **Input**
> ["MinStack","push","push","push","getMin","pop","top","getMin"]
> [[],[-2],[0],[-3],[],[],[],[\|],[-2],[0],[-3],[],[],[],[]]
> 
> **Output**
> [null,null,null,null,-3,null,0,-2]
> 
> **Explanation**
> MinStack minStack = new MinStack();
> minStack.push(-2);
> minStack.push(0);
> minStack.push(-3);
> minStack.getMin(); // return -3
> minStack.pop();
> minStack.top();    // return 0
> minStack.getMin(); // return -2
> 
> **Constraints:**
> 
> - `-231 <= val <= 231 - 1`
> - Methods `pop`, `top` and `getMin` operations will always be called on **non-empty** stacks.
> - At most `3 * 104` calls will be made to `push`, `pop`, `top`, and `getMin`.

# Solution
- **Time Complexity**: $O(1)$
- **Space Complexity**: $O(n)$
## Intuition
- Stack operations are normal
- For min stack, we take the idea of achieving most frequent $k$ elements with min heap by restricting size and invert it
- We maintain a copy of the original stack, when a larger elements is inserted, the min value is inserted again and if a smaller value is inserted, it's inserted as is
- So the min value in the stack is that value repeated, until the index it is popped
```python
class MinStack:

    def __init__(self):
        self.stack = []
        self.minStack = []

    def push(self, val: int) -> None:
        self.stack.append(val)
        if self.minStack:
            val = min(self.minStack[-1], val)
        self.minStack.append(val)

    def pop(self) -> None:
        self.stack.pop()
        self.minStack.pop()

    def top(self) -> int:
        return self.stack[-1]

    def getMin(self) -> int:
        return self.minStack[-1]
```