---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/lc/295-find-median-from-data-stream/","tags":["priorityQueue"]}
---

>[!Problem]
>The **median** is the middle value in an ordered integer list. If the size of the list is even, there is no middle value, and the median is the mean of the two middle values.
> - For example, for `arr = [2,3,4]`, the median is `3`.
> - For example, for `arr = [2,3]`, the median is `(2 + 3) / 2 = 2.5`.
> 
> Implement the MedianFinder class:
> 
> - `MedianFinder()` initializes the `MedianFinder` object.
> - `void addNum(int num)` adds the integer `num` from the data stream to the data structure.
> - `double findMedian()` returns the median of all elements so far. Answers within `10-5` of the actual answer will be accepted.
> 
> **Example 1:**
> 
> **Input**
> ["MedianFinder", "addNum", "addNum", "findMedian", "addNum", "findMedian"]
> [[], [1], [2], [], [3], [\|], [1], [2], [], [3], []]
> **Output**
> [null, null, null, 1.5, null, 2.0]
> 
> **Explanation**
> MedianFinder medianFinder = new MedianFinder();
> medianFinder.addNum(1);    // arr = [1]
> medianFinder.addNum(2);    // arr = [1, 2]
> medianFinder.findMedian(); // return 1.5 (i.e., (1 + 2) / 2)
> medianFinder.addNum(3);    // arr[1, 2, 3]
> medianFinder.findMedian(); // return 2.0
> 
> **Constraints:**
> 
> - `-105 <= num <= 105`
> - There will be at least one element in the data structure before calling `findMedian`.
> - At most `5 * 104` calls will be made to `addNum` and `findMedian`.
> 
> **Follow up:**
> 
> - If all integer numbers from the stream are in the range `[0, 100]`, how would you optimize your solution?
> - If `99%` of all integer numbers from the stream are in the range `[0, 100]`, how would you optimize your solution?

# Solution
- **Time Complexity**: Insertion $O(\log{n})$, Median $O(1)$
- **Space Complexity**: $O(n)$

## Intuition
- The first idea is to maintain a data structure that supports sorted order and random access, but such a data structure does not exist
- Second idea is to maintain 2 halves, lower and upper, where upper will have same size or 1 more in case of odd.
- For this idea, we make use of [[Heap\|Heap]] for both sides, max heap for lower half and min heap for upper half
- This way, we can just peek the top of both halves and get the median
- During add operation, we need to ensure the heaps are balanced
	- Case 1: Count is even. Both sides have equal elements. To maintain the halves property, we push into lower half first and pop the top of lower half, which we then push into upper half. **So we are actually adding to upper half but balancing before that**
	- Case 2: Count is odd. Upper half has one extra element. To maintain the halves property, we push into upper half first and pop the top of upper half, which we then push into lower half. **So we are actually adding to lower half but balancing before that**

```python
class MedianFinder {
private:
    std::priority_queue<int> lowerHalf;
    std::priority_queue<int, std::vector<int>, std::greater<int>> upperHalf;
    bool even;
public:
    MedianFinder() {
        even = true;
    }
    void addNum(int num) {
        if (even) {
            lowerHalf.push(num);
            upperHalf.push(lowerHalf.top());
            lowerHalf.pop();
        } else {
            upperHalf.push(num);
            lowerHalf.push(upperHalf.top());
            upperHalf.pop();
        }
        even = !even;
    }
    double findMedian() {
        if (even) {
            return (lowerHalf.top() + upperHalf.top()) / 2.0;
        } else {
            return upperHalf.top();
        }
    }
};
```